Amber Avila 

I would like to look at the impact of housing instability on student performance. I am interested to see the relationship between eviction rates in different Chicago neighborhoods and student performance metrics. In terms of metrics, I am thinking about looking at attendance, AP placement, dropout rates, and suspensions and expulsions. Housing instability can disrupt a students ability to focus, attend school regularly, and have access to the necessary resources to succeed. During my summer internship, I studied math journeys and noticed a significant amount of missing data from the black population, as well as having multiple journeys possible due to the missing data. I am curious whether housing instability played a factor in this missing data. I would like to explore the relationship in greater detail to better understand how eviction rates may influence educational outcomes.  

Data Sources 
-	https://eviction.lcbh.org/data/download
    - This dataset provides eviction data from 2010-2019 across various geographic levels in Chicago, including citywide, community areas, wards, and census tracts. 
        - It includes approximately 8,040 records at the census tract level, 770 records for community areas, 500 records for wards, and 10 records for the entire city. Each dataset contains multiple columns for eviction counts and related variables. Also, the dataset includes corresponding census data with around 1,608 records for census tracts, 154 for community areas, and 100 for wards. As well as three Census Tract crosswalk files. 
-	https://www.cps.edu/about/district-data/metrics/
    - This dataset provides student performance data for Chicago Public schools, including attendance, college enrollment, graduation rates and dropout rates, freshman on-track status, mobility rates, and suspension and expulsions. 
        - Depending on the metric, the data is reported by individual school and/or across the entire district. There is around 4700 schools and columns can range from 1000 (specially seen in mobility dataset) depending on the metric.
-	https://civilrightsdata.ed.gov/data
    - This dataset provides comprehensive educational data across the United States. (I have it here for more widescale data when it comes to looking at education in the US vs Chicago). This dataset has a lot to explore. The data looks at areas as well as specific schools therefore the rows can range from 18,000 to100,000. In terms of columns there are a variety too if we are looking at classes offered in different schools or the characteristics of schools. 

Questions 
-	I’m considering a subject for my data visualizations that is relatively unknown and more exploratory in nature, so I don’t have established insights or a clear narrative yet. My concern is that because I don’t know much about the topic, it might not be as effective or straightforward to create a compelling visualization compared to choosing a more understood topic where the focus is more on presenting known data with the skills I will be learning in this class. Therefore, do you think this is a good topic to use?
-	The eviction data is latest from 2018/2019 (2018/2017 if I want better data because they were able to update more), I will want to be consistent with the years when looking at school data as well, correct?
-	When it comes to missing data, how would I address this in my visualizations? 